mold is a major health risk that should
not be
taken lightly it can develop quickly in
just 24 to 48 hours of water exposure
surfaces and materials can become
contaminated in addition to heavily
flooded areas mold can pop up in some
obvious household places including damp
basements and moist areas resulting from
plumbing problems or other leaks the bad
news is mold will continue to feed on
moisture and grow until the proper steps
are taken to eliminate the source of
moisture and effectively deal with the
problem the good news is that with a
little elbow grease you can eradicate
mold here's a list of materials you'll
need to kill mold and mildew the items
needed are inexpensive and readily
available at most grocery and hardware
stores after putting on your mask and
gloves wash hard non-porous materials
with non ammonia detergent and hot water
use a stiff brush on rough surfaces such
as concrete use your wet dry vacuum to
remove residue then wash areas or items
with your bleach solution let the bleach
solution remain on the surfaces for at
least 10 minutes before rinsing with
clean water and allowing to dry on
porous materials such as upholstered
furniture use extra caution when
deciding whether to clean or discard the
item if the item has been wet for more
than 48 hours it should be discarded
when in doubt throw it out remember
always wear your mask and gloves walk
clean never mix ammonia with bleach and
exercise extreme caution when discarding
items contaminated with mold avoid
serious health problems resulting from
mold exposure keep things clean dry and
act fast before mold has a chance to
make your life miserable